Update the variable documentation (#266)
bakdata/kpops: docs/docs/user/references/variables/substitution.md

# Substitution

> The [pipeline](../components.md) definition and its [defaults](../defaults.md) allow usage of placeholders and environment.

Author: Hmm, it's missing "variables" at the end.

How about this?
```suggestion
The [pipeline](../components.md) definition and its [defaults](../defaults.md) allow the usage of placeholders and environment variables.
```

> The [pipeline](../components.md) definition and its [defaults](../defaults.md) allow usage of placeholders and environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
KPOps supports the usage of placeholders and environment variables in [pipeline definition](../components.md) and [defaults](../defaults.md).
```

All of them are prefixed with `component_` and follow the following form: `component_{attribute_name}`. If the attribute itself contains attributes, they can be referred to like this: `component_{attribute_name}_{subattribute_name}`.

??? Example
    ```yaml
    --8<--
    ./docs/resources/variables/variable_substitution.yaml
    --8<--
    ```

## Pipeline-config-specific variables

These variables include all fields in the [config](../config.md) and refer to the pipeline configuration that is independent of the components.

!!! info Aliases
    `error_topic_name` is an alias for `topic_name_config_default_error_topic_name`  
    `output_topic_name` is an alias for `topic_name_config_default_output_topic_name`

## Environment variables

Environment variables such as `$PATH` can be used in the pipeline definition and defaults without any transformation following the form `${ENV_VAR_NAME}`. This, of course, includes variables like the ones relevant to the [KPOps cli](../cli-commands.md) that are exported by the user.

[See all KPOps environment variables](environment_variables.md)

> ## Advanced use cases

Reviewer: Move the Advanced use cases to the end of the file

1. **Refer to default component field values**  
As long as a value is assigned to a component attribute, it is possible to refer to it with a placeholder. To see all component fields, take a look at the [pipeline schema](../../../schema/pipeline.json).
2. **Chaining variables**  
It is possible to chain any number of variables, see the [example](#component-specific-variables) above.
3. **Cross-component substitution**  
[YAML](https://yaml.org/){target=_blank} is quite an intricate language and with some of its [magic](https://yaml.org/spec/1.2.2/#692-node-anchors){target=_blank} one could write cross-component references.

## Pipeline name variables

These are special variables that refer to the name and path of a pipeline.

- `${pipeline_name}`  
    Concatenated path of the parent directory where pipeline.yaml is defined in.  

>     For instance, `/data/pipelines/v1/pipeline.yaml`, here the value for the variable would be `data-pipelines-v1`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    For instance, `./data/pipelines/v1/pipeline.yaml`, here the value for the variable would be `data-pipelines-v1`.
```

- `${pipeline_name_<level>}`  
    Similar to the previous variable, each `<level>` contains a part of the path to the `pipeline.yaml` file.  

>     Consider the previous example, `${pipeline_name_0}` would be `data`, `${pipeline_name_1}` would be `pipelines`, and `${pipeline_name_2}` equals to `v1`.

Author: agreed

>     Consider the previous example, `${pipeline_name_0}` would be `data`, `${pipeline_name_1}` would be `pipelines`, and `${pipeline_name_2}` equals to `v1`.

Reviewer: still not resolved: https://github.com/bakdata/kpops/pull/266/files#r1269353531

> [YAML](https://yaml.org/){target=_blank} is quite an intricate language and with some of its [magic](https://yaml.org/spec/1.2.2/#692-node-anchors){target=_blank} one could write cross-component references.

Reviewer 2: worth a mention but did anyone ever try this? 😄

Author: I did some time ago and it worked! I don't remember any specifics though..
